# What is Spring?

[Udemy Course](https://www.udemy.com/course/spring-tutorial-for-beginners/)
[Project Git Repo](https://github.com/in28minutes/spring-master-class/tree/master/01-spring-in-depth)

Spring is an open-source framework created in 2002 to simplify Java development. It provides a collection of libraries that address common challenges faced by Java developers, making our daily tasks easier. Here are a few of those libraries:

spring-core: Provides the fundamental parts of the framework, including the IoC (Inversion of Control) container.
spring-web: Contains logic for developing REST endpoints, handling web requests, and integrating with web technologies.
spring-security: Addresses security concerns, including authentication and authorization for your applications.
spring-data: Simplifies data access and manipulation across different data sources, such as relational databases and NoSQL databases.
spring-mvc: Provides features for building web applications, including model-view-controller architecture support.
spring-test: Allows you to write unit tests and integration tests for Spring applications.

# What is Spring Boot?

Spring Boot is an extension of the Spring framework, introduced in 2014, that simplifies the development of new Spring applications. Created to streamline the setup and development process, Spring Boot allows developers to get started quickly without the need for extensive configuration. Here’s how Spring Boot achieves this:

Auto-Configuration: Automatically configures your application based on the dependencies you have added, reducing the need for manual setup.
Standalone Applications: Allows you to create standalone applications that can run independently without the need for an external application server.
Embedded Servers: Includes embedded web servers like Tomcat, Jetty, or Undertow, so you don’t have to deploy your application to an external server.
Production-Ready Features: Provides built-in support for features such as metrics, health checks, and externalized configuration, which are essential for production environments.
Opinionated Defaults: Offers sensible defaults to reduce the amount of boilerplate code and configuration, enabling you to focus on building your application.
Spring Boot Starters: Provides a set of pre-configured starter dependencies that simplify the process of adding functionalities like web, security, and data access to your project.
By leveraging these features, Spring Boot significantly enhances productivity, allowing developers to build robust and scalable applications with minimal effort. Spring Boot streamlines Spring development to such an extent that developing Spring applications without it seems almost unimaginable. Therefore, in this course, we'll treat Spring and Spring Boot as if they were one and the same.

# Spring Terminology

- Beans
- Autowiring
- Dependency Inhjection
- Inversion Of Control
- IOC Container (Inversion of Control Container)
- Application Context

# Spring Boot

[Spring Initializer](https://start.spring.io/)

# Benefits of Spring

- Dependency injections.
- loolsy coupling classes and objects.

# concepts to understand ??

- What are the beans?
`@Component` annotation tells spring framework the beans it needs to look at. When there are multiple components using the same interface, one of the component should have `@primary` annotation.

- What are the dependencies of a bean?
`@Autowired` annotation tesll spring regarding the dependency of the beans.

- Where to search for beans?
packages with `@SpringBootApplication` 

## Autowired Annotations

It automatically wires beans (objects managed by Spring) into your classes so you don’t have to create them manually.

This is called Dependency Injection.

Since Spring 4.3, if your class has only one constructor, you don’t need to put @Autowired—Spring auto-wires it by default.

```JAVA
@Component
@Primary
@Qualifier("quick")
public class QuickSortAlgorithm implements SortAlgorithm{
    public int[] sort(int[] numbers) {
        // Logic for quick sort
        return numbers;
    }
}
```

```JAVA
package com.kc.java.basics.spring_in_5_steps;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Qualifier;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;

@Component
public class BinarySearchImpl {
    // Autowire by interface
    @Autowired
    private SortAlgorithm sortAlgorithm;

    // Autowire by name
    @Autowired
    private SortAlgorithm BubbleSortAlgorithm;

    // Autowire by Qualifier
    @Autowired
    @Qualifier("quick")
    private SortAlgorithm sortAlgorithm;

    public int binarySearch(int[] numbers, int numberToSearchFor) {
        int[] sortedNumbers = sortAlgorithm.sort(numbers);
        System.out.println(sortAlgorithm);
        return 3;
    }
}


```
